this video is not a regular album review
and it's not just here to critique or
dispute someone else's album review
there's a new mixtape out from little
bee free to download called black Ken
and I was astonished really genuinely
astonished at the negative review given
to it by Anthony Fanta no Anthony Fanta
no is a very well known and vegan music
critic here on YouTube and for me the
review from Anthony Fantana is so bad
it's so awful it's so misguided and so
misleading that it really makes me
question the role of music criticism in
the 21st century the role of music
criticism in an era when you can
download this stuff and hear it for free
in five seconds at no effort to yourself
little B this is not piracy we're
talking about little B is intentionally
providing you with this music for free
and I wanted to provide some reflections
on that along with reflections on little
B's album maybe a little bit about what
little B's music has meant to me over
the years because I am I am a rap
aficionado rap is 90% of the music I
listen to
has been for many many years and of
course that's not true of Anthony
Fantana for him it's only one of many
genres he listens to so he's at a little
bit of a disadvantage here I don't know
how well he knows little B's but that's
look let's not get sidetracked back in
the day people used to pay $20 cash for
a CD I'm Canadian starting about $20 and
it was routine for albums whether it's
$15.99 or $20 where you live it was
routine for a pop album to have two good
tracks on it one single maybe one other
good track to back it up and then maybe
if you're lucky 7 to 12 tracks of filler
of pretty low quality stuff and that was
a hit album now I'm with two decent
tracks and you could pay 20 bucks for it
alright so called classic rap albums
tons of them really have about four
great tracks on them
okay and it blows my mind that we've now
got Anthony Fantana in such a
contemptuous way dismissing this album
from little B giving it 5 out of 10 when
he admits repeatedly in the course of
his review that it has multiple he
doesn't give a specific number but it
has several a significant number of
really good tracks that he himself would
like to listen to again that will stick
around in his hard-driving okay okay so
we're living in an era when I've got to
say this whole concept of reading an
album from 1 to 10 has become
meaningless because you can download an
album for free in seconds right
therefore by definition every album is
either a 0 or a 10
either an album is worthwhile for you to
download or it is not now before doing
this review before recording this video
I checked an album that's considered an
all-time classic from little B is the
gods father mixtape okay so this is
broadly broadly play praised by music
critics by rap fans what-have-you and I
believe from the gods father mixtape on
my harddrive today I have 14 tracks okay
the album had like more than 30 tracks
on it and 14 survived so what do you
think if I'm reviewing that album a free
mixtape free to download
do you think I'm gonna say it's garbage
because more than 50% of the tracks got
deleted that kind of critical lens does
not make sense anymore
now Lil B is an extreme case of this
where he is not his own editor he goes
to the studio he records a bunch of
tracks day in day out and then he puts
out the whole stack of music he's
recorded for his fans for free and he
leaves it up to you to pick and choose
what you're gonna delete off your hard
drive so yes it is a little bit I mean
if you cut if you had come out of a time
machine from the 1960s and you were used
to highly polished highly professional
concept albums where every track is
closely related to the title of the
album you know what I mean if you had
grown up just listening to the Beatles
you know sergeant pepper's Lonely Hearts
Club Band this kind of concept album
where every track is part of a clear
progression from beginning to end or
with a super high recording budget
there's nothing extraneous there no
Onis tracks you don't have sand then
yeah it might come to you as a shock
that this new mixtape from little be it
has 27 tracks and if you listen to them
through you're probably gonna delete the
majority of them even if you're a little
beef am but this critical ends there
were two critical ends there that make
no sense
look this album it's a ten do you know
why right now I can name two songs on it
that are great not just good but great
I'd say still run it and the real is
back those are two albums those are two
tracks on the album that are great and
then beyond that I don't have to nickel
and dime every track here because it's
all free music so if I'm talking to a
friend or even if I'm doing a formal
review I'd say look there are enough
really outstanding tracks here to
justify your time download in the album
listening through and then deciding for
yourself skip around fast for back board
which tracks you're gonna delete and
what you're gonna keep out of the twenty
seven an offer here right now another
thing that you don't kind of blows my
mind
all music criticism is biased in favor
of experimental music and yet little B
still managed to get a five out of ten
out of this guy this is Anthony Fantana
this is the same guy who gave the Death
Grips a ten out of ten okay Death Grips
are as experimental as hip-hop gets
there's no way you can say that lil B's
lyrical content is garbage or little B's
lyrical delivery is weak relative to the
Death Grips
I'm sorry Anthony Fasano but you don't
have a leg to stand on for sure there
are critics there are voices within hip
hop who maybe come out of a very
traditional old school you know they
just straight-up worship Ghostface and
nothing else those faces new school
technically but you know we're anything
that doesn't live up to a certain
particular standard of lyrical delivery
and format is not going to get a high
grade out of them
but Anthony Fasano you rewarded the
garbage lyrical content the worse than
mumble rap incoherent covering up of
totally inept rapping by the death crabs
you rewarded that with a ten out of ten
all right and that music does not hold
up today like most experimental music
Death Grips had a track I've seen
footage it was a fresh new sound it was
experimental it was different the
lyrical content is non-existent the
quality the rap delivery is zero but at
that time sure it was something new
something different something edgy he
gave that a 10 out of 10 this new album
will be is experimental and it's worth
while pausing to think on what to mean
by an experiment an experiment by
definition has an outcome that is
unknown has an outcome that is
unpredictable if we knew what the
outcome would be it would not be an
experiment and that's actually true in
the hard sciences and it's true in the
arts also that's the meaning of what it
really is to be experimental this album
from little B you know I couldn't
believe Anthony Fantana says like the
the vocal delivery and the stuff from
the B is the same as it always was
he makes them dismissive comments it's
completely untrue have you been
listening little B and this is a real
creative departure this is really
innovative this is really different
musically and in terms of lyrical style
and it is reaching back to classic
classic sounds from hip hop from the
period when gangsta rap didn't yet
really exist little B is really reaching
back to and evoking memories of guys
like school II D real pioneers and Lil B
is intentionally staggering his vocal
delivery and having these pauses that
mimics and even some of his choice of
slang is out-of-date hip-hop slang to
bring back the sense of that era and
he's playing his own keys might be need
a great musical intro a lot of the
keyboards are summoning up memories of
Sega Genesis like it sounds like cheap
Yamaha bass out of a cheap synth from
that era you know like 16-bit era great
sound really striking really different
really experimental really new look man
this year
Raekwon put out an album it didn't push
any boundaries there was absolutely
nothing experimental an absolute nothing
new about I'm a huge Raekwon fan if you
asked me to do an all time
five right now I would name Redcorn as
number one okay but Raekwon put out an
album called the wild he put it a new
album this year and there is not a
single track from it on my hard drive
I listened through each track maybe
twice and I deleted them all not a
single track survived and a whole bunch
of tracks from this new album from
little beat we're gonna survive and that
record album whether you liked it or not
you personally subjectively may have
God's Liana but there is nothing new
there is nothing innovative in it not
musically not lyrically there's nothing
provocative there's nothing nothing to
think about
nothing to talk about the new album from
the corner just just yesterday I think
maybe day before yesterday I was on
YouTube and I happened to get the alert
a new song from Snoop Dogg you know okay
like it was like Oh uploaded ten minutes
ago kind of thing I was like I okay I'll
give it give it a chance do you think
Snoop Dogg has done anything innovative
progressive new experimental in the last
10 years in the last 10 years you can
look at all these established rappers
across the board and say in the last 10
years even if they did something
groundbreaking 20 years ago which should
probably true with Snoop Dogg snoop Dogg
very first album sure there was
something new there's something crimp
hood there but look man in the last 10
years who has done more for hip hop Lil
B or Snoop Dogg its little B that's
really the sense in which little B he's
a tiny giant he's this small outsider
artist and guys like Anthony Fantana can
insult him claiming that he has no
lyrical skill no lyrical still compared
to what he has the lyrical skill
compared to Death Grips
Death Grips whom you gave ten out of ten
to an thief Anton oh please you think
little B has no lyrical content compared
to Death Grips compared to Snoop Dogg
compared to I dare say it Raekwon in the
last ten years little B has had songs
just talking about feeling sad and I've
got to say like lyrically there's more
depth and more substance to it then like
90% of what's going on in the Jean
you know just songs about being unhappy
okay just songs about being unhappy
about what's happened to friends of his
and you know all kinds of really simple
emotional tracks I remember right after
the birth of my daughter I was in the
hospital you know we didn't have a sound
system in the hospital I bought a pair
of little mini portable speakers for my
mp3 player
set it up and I remember listening to
the gods father mixtape gold how said a
list of a you know maybe five mixtapes
little bee that I was listening to while
I was in the hospital exhausted
sleep-deprived dealing with all this
abuse from the doctors and nurses they
were such [ __ ] to us to me and my me
and my ex-wife you know and you know
really feeling that you know Moody
reflective vibe often very dissatisfied
with life in various ways you know
there's a lot of little B music that has
emotional content does it have
intellectual content not really but like
what in rap music does what are we
comparing it to are we comparing it to
Death Grips gets it and I'm sorry it's
alright to be stuck on it but like you
know this is a really strange element
because I think all music critics are
positively biased in favor of
experimental music and that's why Death
Grips were these kind of critical
darlings this kind of arthouse rap and
yet little B doesn't seem to get that
bias working in his favor when he comes
out with a really edgy innovative album
like black can that that is an
experimental album and deserves to be
acclaimed as such right and then the
other so the you know I've talked about
already
I think the rating system from one to
ten is now obsolete everything is either
a 0 or a 10 either you're going to
download it and give it a chance and
pick out the tracks you're gonna keep or
you're not either there are a couple of
tracks there that justify the download
that justify you're taking the time
because there's no cost or there aren't
and to keep stick with that example
Raekwon's album the wild is not worth
your time
not worth downloading I did not keep
even one track whereas I feel confident
I can recommend this little bee album to
you and give it a ten out of ten because
there were minimum two tracks I think
probably for a lot of people like hip
hop where we like it'll be minimum six
tracks out of these 27 you're gonna keep
does that mean every track is great no
and some of them are maybe
thought-provoking
in terms of the composition in terms of
the keyboards but don't follow through
lyrically but again that's little beast
choice he doesn't give you a shortlist
he doesn't give you Sgt pepper's Lonely
Hearts Club Band he doesn't give you a
careful composition he gives you every
single thing he banked out in the studio
everything swept up off the studio floor
and says hey maybe it's worth something
to you maybe it's not that's that's how
he sees the role the recording artist
and that brings me to the last point I
want to make here there's this delusion
which Anthony Fantana was a complete
victim of that the value of music is in
looking at the album as one unit right
so like one of the most ridiculous
examples of this was a Ghostface put out
12 reasons to die right and all the
music critics praised this way out of
proportion
I'm sorry Ghostface 12 reasons it got
all this praise from music critics just
because it is a concept album and
because supposedly liked it hold it
tells one story it holds together as one
unit right because music critics are
still looking for sergeant pepper's
Lonely Hearts Club man they're still
looking for the album to be one
aesthetic unit or statement which it's
never gonna be for a little B with free
mixtapes I think it's never gonna be
period but like what are you really
saying you're saying you would have
given this a higher score if it had half
as many tracks and was twice as coherent
as an artistic statement right
like if the title of the album was
thematically linked each track like
sergeant Pepper's learners but it's such
[ __ ] guys it's such well I'm sorry
twelve reasons from ghost phase twelve
reasons is a mediocre album I'm not
gonna say it's terrible some of the
tracks sounded good when I heard them
remixed by other artists I don't think
any of them really sounded good in the
original album but I have heard some
remixes a couple of tracks that hold
but compared to ghost phases other
output a real candidate for the greatest
Ghostface album ever is titled more fish
it was the sequel to anyway it was
sequel to another album that had fish in
the title more fish has no concept no
direction you know what I mean
none of this cute [ __ ] it was a
bunch of tracks some of which he
recorded for mixtapes some of which he
recorded four albums some which were
left over from other sessions put
together on one disc you know a bunch of
different producers that's the creative
process and it's a it's one of the
greatest albums in the history of rap
music history of hip hop but it doesn't
have this thing that these music credits
are looking for of being like one
aesthetic unit right it's not a sergeant
pepper's concept select within
ghostfacers genre something like twelve
reasons gets overrated something like
more fish gets underrated and somebody
like little B is basically adding
penalized because he isn't turning out
albums that fit this unstated aesthetic
expectation of what an album is supposed
to be that's really left over from the
1960's and 1970's
and never had a place in in hip hop
frankly and definitely doesn't have a
place in hip hop now in the 21st century
in the download era all right this this
video has gone on long enough for or too
long look man I've said this about
romance also a lot of guys walk around
with this rating system in their head
like he has a woman of six or seven and
eight or nine
you know rating people out of ten the
same way people rate albums out of ten
but when I was giving advice on dating I
said look the bottom line is either you
like someone enough to embarrass
yourself to go up to them introduce
yourself hey say what's going on either
you like them enough to take that time
make that effort take that risk or you
don't so get rid of the numbers game
don't let it mess up your head everybody
is either a zero or a ten I think that's
a lot mentally healthier for the guys
I'm not even saying that in like a
feminist sense of like this is better
too
avoid objectifying women or something
right and the reality is when it comes
to albums and album recommendations
we're no longer talking about money
we're just talking about time this
artist put together a 27 track artistic
statement you know and he's free for you
to download it doesn't cost you a dime
so is it a zero or a ten the only
judgment call I have to make is is it
worth your time to sift through this and
pick out which tracks you are gonna keep
on your hard drive for free it is and
music critics like Anthony Fantana are
obsolete out of touch and the claims he
makes that like on this album little bee
is doing a bad impression like like his
vocal style is doing a bad impersonation
of Tupac Fantana you're way off you're
way off both in terms of the keyboards
and the lyrics
anyone who knows hip-hop would recognize
that little bee is reaching way back to
guys like school Edie and that earliest
period of the anti-social persona coming
into rap music breaking away from
rappers just party music breaking away
from rap has put your hands in the air
away from it's just don't care those
very first voices where there wasn't yet
gangster rap and when there were a lot
of these weird pauses I mean go back and
listen to school Edie that style of
vocal delivery doesn't hold up today a
lot of that music it was so inspiring
was so new it was so edgy at the time
and little B has referred to this as his
first mixtape in that same sense instead
of a sequel it's a prequel you know he's
going back to the roots of his genre of
hip hop he's doing something new and
different but that in a really
interesting way is reaching back the
musical origin of all I don't know I
don't know in this day and age when it's
free to download I don't know how you
can give this album anything other than
a ten and you tell me in the last decade
whose really done more for hip hop as a
genre in the last decade little B or
Snoop Dogg when we look back on this
history in this decade who's done more
for hip hop little bee or Death Grips
the answer is going to be a little bit
not death Chris